Matlab Channel Access (MCA)

The version number is available via the "mcaversion" command,
it's defined in MCAVersion.h

* V 4.2 - May 24 2012
Matlab has deprecated and removed mxCreateDoubleScalar, replacing it with mxCreateDoubleScalar,
as described by Guobao Chen on http://www.aps.anl.gov/epics/tech-talk/2011/msg01074.php.
Eric Norum checked on Linux for Matlab and Octave.

* V 4.2 - Nov 16 2010
Timo Korhonen: a number of additions:
-new metadata handling functions:
 mcaegu (get engineering units)
 mcaprec (get precision)
 mcaenums (get enum strings)
 mcagets (like mcaget, but returns a string if the channel is enum type)
-modified to handle metadata
 mcaput (when channel is enum type, string can be used to set the value)
-put without waiting for callback, for records where the callback comes late (e.g. motor record)
 mcaputnowait 

* V 4.1.3 - Jun 30 2010
Vladimir Poucki, Hinko Kocevar (Instrumentation Technologies Slovenia):
Update for Windows XP, Matlab R2007a

* V 4.1.2 - Oct 11 2009
Eric Norum: Add #include <errlog.h> to mca.cpp for EPICS R3.14.11.

* V 4.1.1 - Apr 30 2008
Eric Norum: Removed some extra qualifications like Channel:: from headers
to work with new compilers; updated README_OCTAVE.

* V 4.1 - Dec 16 2006
Tweaks to avoid errors when building for Octave,
thanks to Eric Norum and Miroslaw Dach.

Some 'ne' calls replaced with '~=',
and Makefile cleanup.
See buildForOctave.sh

* V 4.0 - Kay Kasemir, Oct 1 2006
Overall code review and cleanup.

- Found one reason for the occasional crash-on-exit:
  In mca_cleanup, the 'iterator' used the node that
  was just deleted to get the 'next' node.
- MCAPUT changes:
  It mostly uses a CA put-callback, which is good, because in Matlab
  scripts you often want to be assured that the 'put' finished before
  you move on.
  Issue 1:
  When used with arrays of PVs and scalar values to put like this:
     mcaput([pv1 pv2 pv3 ...], [scalar1 scalar2 scalar3 ...])
  ... it would silently _not_ use put callback.
  Now the online help tells you so.
  
  Issue 2:
  MCAPUT always simply waited for the 'put' timeout.
  With the default 'put' timeout of 0.01 secs, it would often
  return 0 = "put didn't succeed" because it didn't wait long enough.
  Worse: It would actually return the status of the last callback,
  which might be the 'OK' from a previous caput, not the yet-to-arrive
  'not OK' from the ongoing caput.
  
  With a 'put' timeout of 10 secs, it would always wait 10 seconds,
  even if the put callback already arrived 'OK' after e.g. 0.02 secs.
  
  Now the 'put' timeout is the max. wait time, but mcaput() will
  otherwise return as soon as the 'put' callback arrives.
  Also changed the default 'put' timeout to 10 seconds, in fact
  all timeouts now default to 10 seconds.  
- MCAPUT didn't give any error when writing strings to non-string PVs
  and vice versa. 
- Made the "No channel exists for this handle." error messages more
  specific. The main reason for getting this error is timing.
  Due to irreproducible circumstances, MCAOPEN will sometimes
  fail to connect within the default timeout.
  When MCAOPEN is called interactively, it will print a warning
  message and return a 0 handle.
  When invoked from inside a script, however, Matlab does not show
  this warning message, and subsequent use of the 0 handle will then
  result in this type of error.
- The default search timeout was increased from 1 to 10 seconds to
  make this error less likely.
  (You can still change it via MCATIMEOUT).
- Scripts that re-use the same PV, but don't want to bother
  with elaborate bookkeeping of open connections, might
  consider omitting the MCACLOSE calls, and use MCACHECKOPEN
  in place of every MCAOPEN call.
  This keeps all connections open and thus avoids re-connect timeouts.
  Final cleanup can be done via MCAEXIT.  
- Changed PV hash to template.
- Most messages are now more specific, displaying the invoked method
  and the affected PV name.
- Use PVNAME_SZ from base instead of yet another #define.
- No more compiler warnings with g++ 4.0 and '-Wall'.
- monitor for 'STRING' PVs didn't update the alarm status/severity.
- added a mutex for the monitor cache, since both the monitor callback
  and matlab access it concurrently.
- Arranged files in subdirectories.
- Added unit tests.
- Replaced ChannelAccess.cpp by inlines, no more IsInitialized() checks needed
  because that's automatic.
- Reviewed all the online help, fixed some inconsistencies.
  Example: MCAINFO and MCASTATE were wrong.
  Since closed channels are simply gone, they don't show up
  in the mcastate or mcainfo lists at all,
  so they also don't show up as 'closed'.
- MCACHECK is now the same as MCASTATE.
- MCATIME used to return a Matlab datenum for the UTC time zone,
  and since Matlab lacks timezone support, it was very hard to convert
  that to 'local' time. Now MCATIME returns 'local' time.

* V 3.2 - Kay Kasemir, June 30 2006
steven.banks@synchrotron.vic.gov.au emailed a snapshot
of MCA as used at the Australian Synchroton Project.
Compared that to the sources currently used at the SNS,
and tried to merge the differences.

The A.S.P. sources included
- Fix for mcamonevents:
  While
     mcamonevents([pv1 pv2])
  might have worked,
     mcamonevents([pv2 pv1])
  didn't. Now it always seems to work.

- New
     mcastate
  command.

- mcaput now uses put_callback

There's also a new 'mcaversion' command.


* SNS Release 3.0

Carl Lionberger 18 June 2004

This release incorporates changes done by Steven Banks of the Australian 
Synchrotron Project.  (Steven_Banks@doi.vic.gov.au).  These include 
reliability improvements due to queuing ca callbacks of matlab commands to
prevent reentrancy problems and removal of the earlier fixed limitation on the
number of channel access pv's in use.  Several examples are provided.

A simpler EPICS Makefile style build using the EPICS build environment has
been added.  This was done at SNS by Ernest Williams based on earlier work by 
Kay Kasemir.  See README file.

The mcaconn command present in some earlier SNS versions has been dropped.

There is a timestamp facility but it is somewhat different than a previous
version that was used only at SNS.

This version is known to work under linux and windows.

Our continuing thanks to Andrei Terebilo at SLAC for originally developing MCA. 
